Which Items Convey with the
Property, and Which Do Not?
Before listing your home, it
is important to understand
what conveys with the property,
meaning what stays and what goes.
In Texas, items that are
permanently attached to the home
are generally included in the
sale, while movable items are not.
A helpful way to think about this is to
imagine turning the house upside down.
Anything that would remain attached is
typically included with the sale, while
anything that would fall is generally not.
Attached items usually include
light fixtures, ceiling fans,
TV mounts and brackets, curtain
rods, built-in appliances such as
stoves, garage door openers, and
landscaping planted in the ground.
Movable items, or personal property,
usually include furniture, wall
art, area rugs, freestanding
shelves, and potted plants.
Even large decorative potted plants
are considered personal property
unless they are planted in the ground.
One Important Tip: If there is
something attached to the home that
is sentimental and you plan to keep
it, such as a special light fixture or
chandelier, the best option is to replace
it before listing photos are taken.
That way, the item you want to
keep is never part of the listing,
the photos, or the negotiation.
Now let’s address a common
source of confusion.
In Texas, refrigerators
typically do not convey unless
they are specifically included.
Sellers often advertise items
like refrigerators, washers,
or dryers as part of the sale,
but here is what matters most.
The MLS is not a contract.
It is an advertisement.
The contract is the final
word on what stays or goes.
If an item is not clearly
included or excluded in the
contract in writing, it can create
confusion or legal issues later.
The takeaway is simple.
If there is something you want to keep,
or something you want to include, it must
be clearly addressed in the contract.
Being clear upfront helps avoid
misunderstandings and keeps your
transaction moving forward smoothly.